---
layout: page
title: About
permalink: /about/
---

This is the base Jekyll theme. You can find out more info about customizing your Jekyll theme, as well as basic Jekyll usage documentation at [jekyllrb.com](http://jekyllrb.com/)

You can find the source code for this Jekyll theme at: [github.com/ashutosh2k12/hcz-jekyll-blog](https://github.com/ashutosh2k12/hcz-jekyll-blog)

You can find the source code for Jekyll at [github.com/jekyll/jekyll](https://github.com/jekyll/jekyll)

I'm a fourth year mathematics and computer science student at Grinnell College.
Over the course of my time here, I've done some stuffs, and I have accumulated
some of these stuffs on this site. I have (always unintentionally) rambly blog
posts, usually about the latest book I read or a technology I'm playing with.

## Courses
I have co-taught two courses at Grinnell through the Grinnell Experimental
College with Caleb Leedy. Basically, we sign up to teach a special-interest
topic over a semester and build lessons for a class of interested students. So
far, we have taught a couse on typesetting with \\( \LaTeX \\) as well as a
course on data analysis with Python. I post the course materials for each class
on this site.

## Current interests
Last summer I worked at Keepers Child Safety, a technology start-up firm. I led
the development of prototype software for detecting harmful text messages. My
team used Python machine learning libraries to build the models and a MongoDB
server to store the data.

In previous summers I worked on problems with a Ramsey theoretic flavor,
studying the solutions to integer systems of linear equations under various
"colorings" of the natural numbers. I have also worked on recovering image
data from CT scans, particularly in low-dosage environments. I also enjoy
optimization problems, modeling and computational finance.

In previous semsters I've worked on two major software projects. One was a grant
application management program that my team in CSC 322 is building for the
[Greater Poweshiek Community Foundation](http://greaterpcf.org/). The other was
a new section of the [L-Functions and Modular Forms
Database](http://beta.lmfdb.org), specifically for higher-genus curves. The GPCF
project is based on the Ruby on Rails framework, while the LMFDB project uses
Python's Flask framework. This is all very new for me, but I am excited to learn
more!

## [Jupyter notebooks](ipython/)

I am a big proponent of Python and the tools/ecosystem that is developing around
it. If you have not tried out the [Jupyter notebook][1] yet, you definitely need
to spend some time with it! It will boost your workflow a ton, but it also is on
the vanguard of research reproducibility&mdash;prominent journals like Nature
now
host notebooks for anyone to explore the data of paper submissions.

I use the Jupyter Notebook as a tool for prototyping functions and object code
before staging them into standalone files. I also will from time to time demo
something neat I've stumbled upon in a more formal writeup with a notebook. When
I do, I like to post them onto the site.

## Useless tidbits


Besides studying math and programming, you can regularly catch me reading *The
Economist* or playing the viola. I am a big *Simpsons* fan, and I also enjoy
running (the snowier, the better). For some reason, I am particularly interested
in European integration and economic policy, especially within the context of
the Euro crisis. Frankly, I don't know why, but I find the topic quite thrilling
to study.


[1]: http://jupyter.org/

